Add Globalization Loading Doc Section (#43840)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/extensions/globalization-icu.md

This must be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.

## Load specific ICU version on Linux

By default, when using ICU on Linux, .NET attempts to load the latest installed version of ICU from the system. However, you can specify a specific version of ICU to load by setting the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable.

For example, if the environment variable is set to a specific version number, such as `67.1`, .NET attempts to load that version of ICU. For example, .NET looks for the libraries `libicuuc.so.67.1` and `libicui18n.so.67.1`.

> [!NOTE]
> This environment variable is supported only on .NET builds provided by Microsoft and is not supported on builds supplied by Linux distributions.
> For .NET versions earlier than .NET 10, the environment variable is called `CLR_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE`.

> - **Fallback mechanism**
> 
>   If the specified version isn't found, .NET falls back to loading the highest installed ICU version from the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the specified version isn't found, .NET falls back to loading the highest installed ICU version from the system.
```

This must be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.

> ## Loading Specific ICU Version on Linux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Load specific ICU version on Linux
```

> By default, when using ICU on Linux, .NET attempts to load the latest installed version of ICU from the system. However, you can specify a specific version of ICU to load by setting the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable. Here's how it works:

Reviewer: The `build` setting is going to map to some very old ICU version and it is going change from major version to major version.

When would a .NET user want to use the `build` setting? Should it even be documented?

Reviewer: We may want to delete it from the sources if we are not able to tell what it is for.

Author: I was documenting the current behavior but realized I'm unsure why this value was introduced in the first place, as it doesn't seem generally beneficial. I'll remove it from the documentation to prevent users from relying on it.

Author: > We may want to delete it from the sources if we are not able to tell what it is for.

I think this is done to support the scenario mentioned in https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/79251#issuecomment-1338384561.  

@wscho77 do you still depend on setting `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` to `build` value? if so, could you please elaborate more on your scenario and how this helps? and what would be the problem if not using it.

Reviewer 3: @tarekgh We are still using that setting. In the case of CE devices, many I/O operations  occur during booting time, causing I/O related delays. This causes a lot of delays in app running at this time.
In the case of ICU loading, dlopen() is called multiple times to find the latest version, which causes app execution to slow down. This setting allows us to reduce delays caused by unnecessary I/O operation.

Author: But you can specify the version number and not use `Build` as a value for the environment variable. right?

> - **Using the Build-Time ICU Version**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Use the build-time ICU version**

```

>   Setting the environment variable to `build` instructs .NET to use the exact ICU version that was utilized during its build process. This version is typically defined in the ICU C header file `unicode/uvernum.h`, generated during ICU's build process. The version is determined by the constant [U_ICU_VERSION_MAJOR_NUM](https://github.com/microsoft/icu/blob/bfb7d6bd5b03d2f5322389d21efee8fd1a167269/icu/icu4c/source/common/unicode/uvernum.h#L56) in the header file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When you set the environment variable to `build`, .NET uses the exact ICU version that was used during its build process. This version is typically defined in the ICU C header file `unicode/uvernum.h`, generated during ICU's build process. The version is determined by the constant [U_ICU_VERSION_MAJOR_NUM](https://github.com/microsoft/icu/blob/bfb7d6bd5b03d2f5322389d21efee8fd1a167269/icu/icu4c/source/common/unicode/uvernum.h#L56) in the header file.
```

> - **Specifying a Custom ICU Version**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Specify a custom ICU version**

```

>   If the environment variable is set to a specific version number, such as `67.1`, .NET will attempt to load that version of ICU. For example, it will look for the libraries `libicuuc.so.67.1` and `libicui18n.so.67.1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the environment variable is set to a specific version number, such as `67.1`, .NET attempts to load that version of ICU. For example, .NET looks for the libraries `libicuuc.so.67.1` and `libicui18n.so.67.1`.
```

> - **Fallback Mechanism**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fallback mechanism**

```

>   If the specified version is not found, .NET will fall back to loading the highest installed ICU version from the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If the specified version isn't found, .NET falls back to loading the highest installed ICU version from the system.
```

This must be done for all the ICU binaries for the supported runtimes. Also, the `NuGetPackageId` metadata in the `RuntimeTargetsCopyLocalItems` item group needs to match a NuGet package that the project actually references.

## Load specific ICU version on Linux

> By default, when using ICU on Linux, .NET attempts to load the latest installed version of ICU from the system. However, you can specify a specific version of ICU to load by setting the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable. Here's how it works:
> 
> - **Specify a custom ICU version**
> 
>   If the environment variable is set to a specific version number, such as `67.1`, .NET attempts to load that version of ICU. For example, .NET looks for the libraries `libicuuc.so.67.1` and `libicui18n.so.67.1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when using ICU on Linux, .NET attempts to load the latest installed version of ICU from the system. However, you can specify a specific version of ICU to load by setting the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable.

For example, if the environment variable is set to a specific version number, such as `67.1`, .NET attempts to load that version of ICU. For example, .NET looks for the libraries `libicuuc.so.67.1` and `libicui18n.so.67.1`.
```
The "Specify a custom ICU version" heading does not make sense now that we are not documenting the `build` value.

> [!NOTE]

> > This environment variable is supported only on .NET builds provided by Microsoft and is not supported on builds supplied by Linux distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This environment variable is supported only on .NET builds provided by Microsoft and is not supported on builds supplied by Linux distributions.
> For .NET versions earlier than .NET 10, the environment variable is called `CLR_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE`.
```

- **Fallback mechanism**

  If the specified version isn't found, .NET falls back to loading the highest installed ICU version from the system.

This configuration provides flexibility in controlling ICU version usage, ensuring compatibility with application-specific or system-provided ICU versions.

> > [!NOTE]
> > For .NET versions earlier than .NET 10, the environment variable is called `CLR_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This can be together with the other note that talks about the env variable

- <xref:System.Globalization.RegionInfo.CurrencyNativeName?displayProperty=nameWithType> returns the same value as <xref:System.Globalization.RegionInfo.CurrencyEnglishName?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

In addition, fewer locales are supported. The supported list can be found in the [dotnet/icu repo](https://github.com/dotnet/icu/blob/dotnet/main/icu-filters/icudt_wasm.json#L7-L195).

> ## Globalization Setup in .NET Applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Globalization setup in .NET apps
```

.NET globalization initialization is a complex process that involves loading the appropriate globalization library, setting up the culture data, and configuring the globalization settings. The following sections describe how globalization initialization works on different platforms.

### Windows

> On Windows, .NET follow the following steps to initialize globalization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Windows, .NET follow the following steps to initialize globalization:

```

- Check whether [NLS mode](#use-nls-instead-of-icu) is enabled. If enabled, .NET will skip loading the ICU library and instead rely on Windows [NLS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/intl/national-language-support) APIs for globalization support.

- Check whether the [app-local ICU](#app-local-icu) feature is enabled. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the application directory by appending the specified version to the library names. For instance, if the version is 72.1, .NET will first try to load `icuuc72.dll`, `icuin72.dll`, and `icudt72.dll`. If these libraries cannot be loaded, it will then attempt to load `icuuc72.1.dll`, `icuin72.1.dll`, and `icudt72.1.dll`. If none of the libraries are found, the process will terminate with an error message such as: `Failed to load app-local ICU: {library name}`.

> - If none of the preceding conditions are satisfied, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the system directory. It first tries to load `icu.dll`. If this library is unavailable, it will then attempt to load `icuuc.dll` and `icuin.dll`from the system directory. If any of these libraries are not found, the runtime will fall back to using NLS APIs for globalization support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If none of the preceding conditions are satisfied, .NET attempts to load the ICU library from the system directory. It first tries to load `icu.dll`. If this library is unavailable, it then attempts to load `icuuc.dll` and `icuin.dll` from the system directory. If any of these libraries aren't found, the runtime falls back to using NLS APIs for globalization support.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > NLS APIs are always available in all Windows versions, so .NET can always rely falling back on them for globalization support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> NLS APIs are always available in all Windows versions, so .NET can always fall back on them for globalization support.
```

### Linux

- Check whether [Globalization Invariant Mode](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/features/globalization-invariant-mode.md) is enabled. When this mode is active, .NET bypasses loading the ICU library. Instead, it relies on built-in invariant culture data, ensuring that behavior remains fully independent of the operating system and the ICU library.

> - Check whether the [app-local ICU](#app-local-icu) feature is enabled. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the application directory by appending the specified version to the library names. For instance, if the version is 68.2.0.9, .NET will try to load `libicuuc.so.68.2.0.9` and `libicui18n.so.68.2.0.9`. If any of the libraries are found, the process will terminate with an error message such as: `Failed to load app-local ICU: {library name}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check whether the [app-local ICU](#app-local-icu) feature is enabled. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the application directory by appending the specified version to the library names. For instance, if the version is 68.2.0.9, .NET will try to load `libicuuc.so.68.2.0.9` and `libicui18n.so.68.2.0.9`. If none of the libraries are found, the process will terminate with an error message such as: `Failed to load app-local ICU: {library name}`.
```

> - Check if the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the specified version of ICU as desctibed in [Loading Specific ICU Version on Linux](#loading-specific-icu-version-on-linux).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check if the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the specified version of ICU as described in [Load specific ICU version on Linux](#load-specific-icu-version-on-linux).
```

> - Check if the `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the specified version of ICU as desctibed in [Loading Specific ICU Version on Linux](#loading-specific-icu-version-on-linux).

Reviewer: This step applies for Microsoft "portable" builds only. For example, it won't work if you install .NET on Ubuntu from Ubuntu package feed.

Author: Do we have some doc defining what portable and non-portable builds are? I am trying to know if I mention portable build will be obvious to the readers to understand.

Reviewer: In user facing docs, I think we can say "Microsoft provided build" and "Linux distro provided build".

(Portable vs. non-portable is a concept of dotnet/runtime build script https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/60a29248bbb501dd037d2984daea3635cf20b412/eng/build.sh#L83 but that is not something to explain in user facing docs like this one.)

Author: I have added a note under the section `Load specific ICU version on Linux` which describing `DOTNET_ICU_VERSION_OVERRIDE`.

> - If none of the preceding conditions are satisfied, .NET will attempt to load the highest installed version of the ICU library from the system. It try to load the libraries `libicuuc.so.[version]` and `libicui18n.so.[version]` where `[version]` is the highest installed version of ICU on the system. If the libraries are not found, the process will terminate with an error message such as: `Failed to load system ICU: {library name}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If none of the preceding conditions are satisfied, .NET attempts to load the highest installed version of the ICU library from the system. It tries to load the libraries `libicuuc.so.[version]` and `libicui18n.so.[version]`, where `[version]` is the highest installed version of ICU on the system. If the libraries aren't found, the process terminates with an error message such as: `Failed to load system ICU: {library name}`.
```

### macOS

- Check whether [Globalization Invariant Mode](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/features/globalization-invariant-mode.md) is enabled. When this mode is active, .NET bypasses loading the ICU library. Instead, it relies on built-in invariant culture data, ensuring that behavior remains fully independent of the operating system and the ICU library.

> - Check whether the [app-local ICU](#app-local-icu) feature is enabled. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the application directory by appending the specified version to the library names. For instance, if the version is 68.2.0.9, .NET will try to load `libicuuc68.2.0.9.dylib` and `libicui18n68.2.0.9.dylib`. If any of the libraries are found, the process will terminate with an error message such as: `Failed to load app-local ICU: {library name}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check whether the [app-local ICU](#app-local-icu) feature is enabled. If it is, .NET will attempt to load the ICU library from the application directory by appending the specified version to the library names. For instance, if the version is 68.2.0.9, .NET will try to load `libicuuc68.2.0.9.dylib` and `libicui18n68.2.0.9.dylib`. If none of the libraries are found, the process terminates with an error message such as: `Failed to load app-local ICU: {library name}`.
```
